---
layout: post
title: "Just created a Ruby Gem"
date: "2017-09-30"
comments: true
tags: dev
draft: false
---

I had this old Ruby script lying around which I was using to upload my sites to s3 whenever I
wanted to deploy something new.

{{< gist c0ze 0bcf901231e19dc4303d >}}

However, as you can imagine, copying this script around was not the best solution as in time, I added bits
here and there, updated to use new aws-sdk etc, and keeping them all in sync was getting tedious ...

Sooo, finally I nudged myself and put it in a gem. Ladies and Gentlemen, here is [Emblaze](https://github.com/c0ze/emblaze) !
It's basically a rake task to minify & gzip & and upload a static site to S3.

Some of you may wonder, "What does __Emblaze__ have to do with uploading a site to cloud ?"

Well, rest assured, the name has nothing to do with what it does. Initially I had a mind to call it __aws-s3-deploy__.
But it turns out, [that name was already taken](https://rubygems.org/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=aws-s3-deploy).
Along with a whole sloth of similar candidates, like __s3Deploy__, __s3Deployer__, etc ...
So I took the liberty to get creative .... So here you are with Emblaze !

What does it provide against the competition ? Well it's compatible with the latest aws-sdk. And just requires s3-sdk so I tried to
keep the deps to a minimum. It's dotenv & travis compatible, so you can integrate it with your CI pipeline with minimum issues.
I already use it to deploy all my sites.

Currently the site folder is fixed to `_site`. So it's geared towards Jekyll sites. But you can deploy anything with it. I can
add customised upload dirs without much trouble. But I am kind of waiting for someone to come and ask for it :) it will be more fun !
